Do you guys smell that?
Oh, it smells good.
Do you smell that?
Yeah.
It's a new fresh version of Cinnamon Desktop, version 2.6.
Now I wonder if Clem hates it when Michael Larbel does this, when he pre-announces.
I gotta imagine if you've worked months and months on something and you want to make a
big announcement and you want to drive people to your blog with screenshots and bullet points,
you hate it when old Larbel here is watching your GitHub page, or maybe he's just watching
his forums.
But whatever he's watching, Cinnamon 2.6 update was just tagged, the release version was just
tagged on GitHub for Cinnamon, and it's a significant update.
This one bakes in systemd support, which is pretty nice, panel support for multiple monitors,
which my wife would kill for, and support for client-side decorations, which is becoming
more and more common.
I'm looking right here at Polari, which is a great IRC client off of my other screen.
Needs client-side decorations, TweetDeck, or not TweetDeck, TweetBird, client-side decorations.
So those wanting to grab Cinnamon 2.6, guess what, you gotta wait.
Clem will have an update for you soon on the blog, but in the meantime, packages are gonna
be hitting probably Arch and Linux Mint very soon, and then the other distros.
I have a question for the Mumble Room guys.
I don't know, I mean, you know, there's obviously you could just get Linux Mint, Cinnamon edition,
but for some reason, doesn't like fedora and cinnamon sound like a super tasty combination?
Does that sound appealing to you guys?
Yeah, I guess, that whole thing.
I have my own preconceptions of fedora, I guess, sometimes I've used it, and I have
my own preconceptions of cinnamon, and I think that although they might complement each other,
they might complement each other in the worst way I could think of.
Oh, lay it down, what do you mean?
Give me your wisdom, share it.
Oh, whenever I've ever touched cinnamon, it's great, it's a wonderful feeling to stop, and
other people love that.
It has a great personality.
I want to get that out first.
Okay.
It has a great personality, but the way it acts drives me insane, chews up so much RAM,
it's crashy, you know, at least when I use it, I'll put that in front of it.
Well I'll give you this, it actually has been a little crashy for me too, and a little memory
hungry, but if I'm okay with restarting it, and you know, it's real easy to restart the
cinnamon desktop, it seems to be okay.
Absolutely.
Yeah, that's the same thing, same thing with fedora, kind of, you know, seems to have some
great stuff, but you know, a little bit crashy, a little bit odd things happen, really weird
times.
Wow.
I think Ryan, do you want to defend fedora there, or were you just clicking your mic
open?
I was just accidentally clicking my mic open.
Oh, I thought maybe you were so passionate about it, passionate, you were going to go
down on the mat for fedora, but no, no, that's not the case.
I actually see, here's the thing, here's why I said fedora and cinnamon, and I am, I'm
not saying it's there right now, fedora 22 could be one of the first versions of fedora,
maybe, we don't know yet at this point, that ships with like a really easy to get going
with cinnamon setup.
And I, starting with fedora 21, I feel like they crossed into, holy crap, this is like
a legitimate, useful desktop.
And there's things out there like fed up and fedora tweak and things like this that make
it more usable, but, or corora, really.
It's getting there though.
It's really, really, really getting there.
And while Ubuntu goes through this awkward transition where they're going to do Unity
next and they're going to go to snappy packages and they're going to go to QML and QT for
their desktop and they're going to converge everything, it's really nice to think that,
boy, there's this Red Hat backed distribution, you know, Red Hat that makes all those billions
and has actual sway in the market.
There's this Red Hat backed distribution out there that could have cinnamon and gnome.
And gnome is going to be the premier desktop, cinnamon is going to be a pretty solid choice,
and corora is going to work on a KDE version for you.
And all of a sudden I'm starting to look at fedora and I'm thinking, boy, if they just
had a few more months of support or the community stepped it up like they used to do back in
the day.
Here's where I'm at, guys, and we're going to talk about this more in the show.
This week I had a come to Jesus moment with Ubuntu and I said, get it off this machine.
I'm not going to do, this sounds like I'm being a diva, but I'll explain more in the
show.
I'm not going to do another episode until Ubuntu is removed off this computer.
And I said, check my contract, there's a clause in there.
And Rekai came down here between Tech Talk today and Linux Unplugged and installed and
enter gross with gnome three and on a system 76 meerkat, I'm going to give you all the
details on why that is.
But I look at this and I think we need another solution out there.
And for me, it cannot be Ubuntu 14.04.
It's not a usable solution.
I'll explain more why later.
And now what am I going to do?
So my default is I went to arch.
This is a daily media production computer.
I do a daily show and then I have another show later in the day every single day.
I don't know if I'm comfortable with it being arch.
So far it's been more reliable.
And so that's where I'm at, but I'm not so sure that's a solid statement on the state
of Linux for media production.
So now I'm looking at Fedora and I'm thinking maybe there's an opportunity there if some
of these things are addressed.
So I'm really excited about Fedora 22.
I'm watching it very closely because my expectations and my needs from a competently backed Linux
distribution are beginning to change.
And so Fedora could fill that role pretty well.
Can I chime in for a second?
Cool.
That's actually why I started talking to Aiki and getting interested in Solus because I
was hoping to help build a distribution that I felt could actually not piss me off constantly
and I hate to say that because I was a firm Ubuntu user for a really long time and I loved
it.
And then with every single new release probably I was actually okay with Unity and everything,
but after 12.04 it seemed like every new release I was having more and more issues that I was
like I haven't had these issues with some other distributions.
I don't understand why this is supposed to be so stable when I'm having these problems
and somebody was just telling me the other day about they tried to do an upgrade.
They didn't have any extra crap on their machine, no extra repos.
They tried to do a straight upgrade and it broke something and I was like yeah, thinking
about it since you've said that I've never had an upgrade that has just worked under
Ubuntu.
I guess I just feel like there is a market opportunity for somebody to come forward and
say establish Linux users, we're not going out to new Linux users.
People that are professionals, people that are experts, establish long-time Linux users.
Fedora has an opportunity to step up and say let us be your premier desktop platform and
wouldn't that be great for Red Hat too because in that naturally within sort of channel those
people into using things like Red Hat and CentOS on their cloud installations, on their
deployments at work.
It fundamentally is like planting the seeds to grow Red Hat's enterprise business by becoming
the champion on the desktop.
The fact that they bailed on it years ago, I was always shocked, shocked by that because
that seemed like such an obvious connection and it's clearly one of the things that's
helped Ubuntu dominate Amazon and Digital Ocean and Rackspace.
One of the reasons Ubuntu does that is because a lot of those people are developing on an
Ubuntu workstation too.
Don't kid yourself.
Red Hat blew it when they pulled the plug and said, ah, we'll let the community do it.
But you know what?
It turns out now Ubuntu is blowing it, right?
And I'm not saying blowing it like they're making all these horrible mistakes and they're
going to destroy everything.
I'm saying blowing it like they're not paying attention for a few years and they could very
potentially be working on maybe the most kickass desktop eventually.
If they really pulled everything off and they had all these snap stuff and this transactional
base update and they had everything that was converged and this great SDK for developers
writing for Linux to target, like if they really pull all of that off, maybe it's the
most badass Linux desktop.
In the meantime though, it's a hot mess and it's a transition.
And so there is an opportunity for Fedora to be like, hey, you know what?
Long time Linux users, you want something you can rely on, you want something great,
you want something that's taken advantage of the latest open source, Fedora's already
known for all of that stuff, it just seems so perfect for them to just slip right in
there and be that next spot everybody jumps to.
Because it's not going to take like this huge rebranding, like it would take a massive rebranding
from Andreeva, nobody takes OpenSUSE as serious enough on that scale, so that's not going
to happen.
And there's all these other distros out there like Arch or all of the other distros that
are really great, like elementary, but they just don't have the momentum or the approachability
that something like Fedora does.
And Fedora has the great interface, they have a good installer now, they have a great community,
they have fantastic documentation, they have Red Hat behind them, they just are not executing
this.
And I don't know what that barrier is, maybe it's impossible, but I think, I want it to
be them, when it came time to reload this machine, I guess it's Arch.
Because I can't think of what else is going to work better.
And that is, to me, that's not a state of how awesome Arch is, that's not Chris being
an Arch fanboy, because I didn't make that decision out of a point of fanboyism or out
of evangelism, I made that out of a, well, I guess it's that or Windows and I don't want
to do Windows, and so do Arch.
I didn't do it because, yeah, let's do another machine with Arch, I mean Arch is great, but
it doesn't feel like the, a rolling distribution doesn't feel like the solution for a machine
that's supposed to do audio and video calls all day long.
Like that doesn't feel like the right solution for that.
But you know what, I went with an LTS and it blew up so bad, I not only had to delay
one show by an hour and a half on Sunday, I had to completely forego doing another show.
So I have damaged two shows, directly impacted my work and my business because of Ubuntu
LTS's flakiness.
So I had to bail on that, and my other option is Windows, and I think why isn't Fedora the
answer here, something modern, something that gives me the latest packages so I have the
latest audio visual stack, I can get the latest mumble client, something with CentOS, can't
deliver on that, why isn't Fedora already in this position?
And it seems baffling to me because if they could completely dominate this, then it seems
like people would naturally slide into the cloud stuff.
I've made my point, I'm rant done, it's just, I'm desperate for them to do it.
I know, it's like, saying this, and it's like, I know you listed a lot of things, you didn't
touch Debian, you didn't touch, there was another one I had listed, I'm just trying
to think of the main distros, just ones you might want to think of in the future, give
a shot, because I know people are just like, ugh, Debian, it's like, ugh, you know, people
have this predisposition of, oh, it's slow and it's, oh.
No, Debian's a great distribution, right, what's the company behind Debian that can
make people in the market do what they say?
And also-
What's the company that could write a million dollar check to Nvidia one day?
I don't know of one, right, there's, you need to have an organization that has some pull
in the industry, you need to have an organization that can write a check from time to time,
you just need to have an organization that maybe could fly a few people in every now
then to talk about stuff, like, these distros are great, but they can't even do that, it
has to be a distro that from time to time could afford to fly a developer in, that,
we need to be able to start at that level-
They do have that, they do have that, there are, just because something is kind of a volunteer
organization does not mean they don't have money for that, you know, Xorg and all these
other people put out tons of money every year to do this-
You're right, and that's why, that's right, that's why, that's why there's so many Debian
based OEMs out there, that's why there's so many hardware partners that-
There are!
No, no, no, no, there are, there are people, there are companies out there that use Debian,
and because those companies use Debian, they create a contract with a manufacturer to write
some code, but there's a complete difference, then, then, then, there's a total difference
in a company like Valve contacting a group like Canonical and working with their developers
and working through their organizational structure, and then a foundation that has some volunteers
that get some money that has about two thousand dollars to spend from time to time to fly
people around.
I mean, I'm not saying that's not great, it is super great and I'm very, very, very, very
glad we have it, but it is a totally different level than what you need to be if you're going
to actually be a premiere platform provider, and it's, it's for the desktop in this marketplace
today with the market conditions, and I'm not saying Debian, that, that demotes what
Debian is, because Debian is an amazing distribution that so many things are built off, and it
was what I really discovered Linux around when I put it on servers, I mean, it's a very
great distribution, but it can't be, what is the, it can't be Ubuntu, it can't be Ubuntu
on the desktop, it's not, it's not, it's not backed by an organization like Red Hat, and
that makes a huge difference.
I feel like Red Hat kind of screwed us, I feel like Red Hat screwed us, basically.
I feel like they bailed on us and screwed us.
Yeah, Red Hat has the resources of what you're talking about, they have a lot of resources,
they're not a poor organization, and so it is frustrating when you see them, they have
this blue-headed stepchild that they've had forever, and, and granted, they're putting
more into it now, and it, and they're making it better, but it's, it's still got a ways
to go, and it is frustrating coming from what is, many would consider to be a flagship Linux
company.
So I'm there with you.
I think SteamOS might have been a bad idea to use as an example for that.
Go ahead.
I mean, because it is Debian-based, just because, you know, Debian isn't working specifically
with any vendor, doesn't mean that there aren't, you know, vendors going in and taking their
software and using it, that's kind of the spirit of open source.
Debian's the place you want to go if you want to find the core developers, the people inside
Linux, but if you want to get out and pull people in, it's not the place to go.
I feel so let down.
I just, I guess why I'm upset is I just feel, I feel really let down.
Did you try PC Linux?
Yeah, you know, how many more things should I try?
It's just, it's, it's such a bummer.
It's such a bummer because I've, I've just, I don't know, I try to get people to switch
to Linux all the time, and I advocate the platform all the time, and then I try to use
it and it just fails for me, and it's just so frustrating.
I mean, those of you who didn't watch the Tech Talk, it was just such a joke, like,
so just a real quick, like, total, like, abbreviated, like, I don't even know.
So I restarted, I restarted the machine this morning, and when it came back up, all of
the two USB sound cards that I have were only listed as input or as output devices, not
available as input devices.
Of course, one needs to be input and one needs to be output.
One's the mic in, one's the mic out.
Pretty obvious.
So, for some reason, not only did the sound devices change the labeling, so the label
of the sound devices changed, so they're actually mislabeled, it reverses them, but, you know,
it's only two of them, so I can figure that out within about five seconds, and I've gotten
used to that, it doesn't even bother me more, but it's odd that it happens after every single
freaking reboot.
So I get used to which sound devices have swapped the names, and then now this time
I discovered that they're only listed as output devices, not listed as input devices.
Okay, well, you know what, the Mumble Room, they're pretty flexible, they just need to
be able to hear me, and I have a show I need to do, it is now after nine o'clock, so I'm
already late, so I finally figure out, nothing I'm going to be able to do about this, I try
plugging, unplugging, powering off, powering on, nothing happens, and, you know, I'm not
really totally invested in it, because I'm also trying to prepare a show, and I'm on
the live stream, but, you know, whatever, I see that the monitor webcam mic in is showing
up.
I have the mic in on the sound card, which is ironic, because the NUC actually has audio
out, but it shows audio in from the sound card, and the USB webcam audio on the built-in
webcam on the monitor.
So I figure, well, the Mumble Room could probably stand and just listen to me on the webcam
microphone, even though it's about four feet away from me, they'll be able to hear me,
and because I can still control audio out, I'll still be able to hear them and record
it.
Now, think about this, think about where I'm at right now.
Or I'm trying to do a daily show, and this is what I'm reduced to, because this has just
randomly fallen apart from a reboot.
Oh, but okay, I'll choose the webcam audio, not a big deal, I can roll with the punches
and troubleshoot afterwards.
Yeah, I have another show to work on, but you know what, I'd like to spend an hour of
my day troubleshooting this again, even though I just spent two hours of Sunday troubleshooting
this.
Oh, fine.
So I choose webcam audio, and this is, mind you, because I've had so many issues, I'm
doing cold boots now, so I've done another cold restart, figured out which USB device
is labeled as what, made sure I have the correct input and output, and the only thing I've
opened at this point is the sound settings control panel, or system settings, whatever,
and I can see audio input when I talk from the webcam.
Great.
So I close that, I open up Mumble.
No audio.
Hmm.
Well, I go check the audio settings.
It'll set to pulse default.
Well, pulse audio in is my webcam, pulse out is the correct audio out sound card, because
again, audio out is the only thing I can control in that setting.
Huh.
Well, it doesn't work.
So I close Mumble.
I open up the sound settings.
Well, I see levels when I talk.
Why doesn't Mumble hear anything?
So I close the sound settings.
I open up Skype.
I do a Skype call test.
Oh, Skype hears me just fine.
Skype can hear the audio.
Huh.
So I close that.
I open up sound recorder.
I record me talking.
Sound recorder records me just fine.
I reopen up Mumble.
No audio.
Why?
Don't know.
I have now run into a completely new bug in Mumble.
Completely unrelated, apparently, to the other bugs that I've been having.
So I have to now close Mumble, turn the computer off, boot the computer back up, now figure
out which USB device has been labeled as which, set them as my audio input and output devices,
and now open up Mumble, changing absolutely nothing else, and the audio works just fine.
So somehow I get through the show, and at the end of the show, we decide, got to take
Ubuntu off here.
This is just not working anymore.
This is just not usable.
I don't know why it's working like that.
It is an Intel NUC.
It is Ubuntu 14.04.
I've tried it with updates installed and not updates.
I have done updates because I thought it can't get any worse, and then that's when the mislabeling
thing started to happen.
It got worse.
So I just don't know what to do at this point.
I have had people look at it.
I have troubleshooted.
I don't know what else can be done other than to replace the operating system, and I am
baffled as to why it happens, but it is unusable.
I have an idea as to why it's happening.
It's unacceptable.
I agree.
It sounds exactly like a UDEV pinning problem, and it's been outlined, and it's something
that Ubuntu is apparently looking at changing, because the UDEV has two options.
It can go and assign just basically whatever device comes up first when the kernel goes
and finds it, and that's when it assigns the first device.
That's why it assigns eth0 and eth1 and all these other things, and that's why these can
flip randomly, it seems like.
Now you can do a kind of a pinning process of, okay, when this one comes up, I want this
one to always be eth0, or I want this sound card to always be audio 0, or what have you,
and Ubuntu doesn't have that little switch flicked, and it's become more of a problem
now.
I believe Fedora does actually flip as I've done this, and it is a real problem.
I personally had this problem with Nix, where I've done it as to per eth0, these are the
settings for eth0, and then I reboot, and everything's fine.
I understand your pain, and I understand where you're coming from with the Red Hat thing.
There's not someone I can call, or I can talk to, or that I know has covered this situation,
and Debian, I guess, isn't that perfect one, because they're going to their own philosophical
ideas of how things should work, and maybe that should be up to them.
Red Hat will be more about thinking, I'm selling this thing, I need it to be just like this.
I kind of understand that feeling.
Some things about being in media production exacerbate it a little bit, because something
that some people don't have is I have a USB 3 HDMI video capture device, and if I open
up Jitsi, and then close Jitsi and want to open up Skype, video for Linux will not release
the video capture device from Jitsi, so I have to reboot the machine in order to release
the video capture device, so that way I can then open up Skype and have video.
Well, that then, if you have any kind of problem with the audio issue, that then exasperates
that issue, right?
Whereas in a normal Linux system, you probably wouldn't be rebooting as frequently as I am,
so you don't run into it every single episode like I do.
So there's things that just compound on top of it that make it worse than what normal
people run into.
Like, a lot of people aren't having to change their audio interfaces very often, that's
just not something they ever touch, right?
But here it's something we change from time to time, and rebooting is something we do
occasionally, and I try to minimize, I try to make it work so bad, and I feel so defeated
when I've lost three days of work to this problem.
I still recommend giving OpenSUSE a try.
I don't really, I've never really been much of a fan of Fedora, other than, you know,
testing a few things here and there, but I always say, you know, OpenSUSE still has
the release model, it has stable upgrades, it's got server, you can sue it, it's got
a company back with millions of dollars behind it that you can, you know, have some developers
around.
Which company is it this year?
They change companies so often, I can't keep it straight.
I'll just say it is, but, you know, just give it a try.
No, I used to be an OpenSUSE user, I used to.
Me too.
You know why the OpenSUSE movement died?
Ubuntu.
Their PR is magical.
They roll over anything.
No.
No, they just take, no, no, it's nothing to do with PR, Ubuntu's a better product, that's
why.
No, Ubuntu's a better product, that's why Ubuntu took over.
Oh no.
If it was a better product, I would have been using it.
No, it's a better product for more people.
Oh, really?
I think it's a better product for more people.
Right, you're the single arbiter of what is really bad in the Linux community.
Yeah.
Yeah, you're the single arbiter of what is really bad in the Linux community.
Oh boy.
Oh yeah.
Ubuntu's freaking lost my freaking, you know, very long time ago.
Give it a try, man.
No, you tell me like I've never tried it before.
I just ran like whatever 13.2 or whatever it was, I mean, you know.
Other than on a VM.
No, I had it on a, I had it on a Bonobo.
So Chris.
Yeah.
I mean, in my opinion, you could switch to another distro and maybe that sound problem
will go away.
Maybe it'll go away like today, maybe it'll go away for the next six months.
And then come back.
But something else will come and bite you, whether it's, oh no, I can't, I can't update
my Java install, which is required by something else, or, oh no, I can't update my browser
or there's some problem when I plug in USB devices that causes it to reboot, you know.
That would be an issue.
I mean, aside from that USB one, none of them would stop me from doing a show though, right?
That's what gets me.
No, but every distro, no distro is perfect.
And I'm not saying we are.
Right.
No, I agree.
They all have their own individual issues.
And I, you know, I get this a lot at Linux user groups where people will install a distro
and it doesn't really matter which one it is, they'll install a distro and something
won't work.
It doesn't matter what it is, whether it's the video card or their wacky mouse or whatever.
And so the solution to that is not work out what the problem is, but it's, you know, wipe
it and put a different distro on it.
When eventually they'll find one that they're happy with, you know, for whatever measure
of happy that is.
And then, you know, you could check the mailing list and six months later they'll have flipped
to something else because something else pissed them off or, you know, they might last a year,
they might last 18 months or they might be happy on an LTS release of some distro or
they might be on Debian stable and nothing changes and there's cobwebs everywhere, but
it's all holding together and everything's fine.
But someday something will fuck up and they'll get just as pissed off again.
Yeah.
I suppose what, you know what, you know, it's ironic is in a way if I could have booted
up and realized, oh no, this update has made my audio way worse.
If I could have rebooted again back into the old system state, that would have been very
nice, like some sort of like transactional update where I could just roll back because
I could have, if I could have rolled back, it could have been manageable had it not been
like all of the other issues compounded by the latest updates.
And I was hoping the latest updates would make things a little better because I figured
it's already busted, can't get much worse, got way worse.
And don't get me wrong, I feel your pain, you know, when something goes wrong and I
just want to throw a laptop out of a window, you know, that frustration, especially when
you have a deadline and you've got something to do, that it is the worst feeling in the
world when you're fighting against and you feel that it feels like the computer is fighting
against you.
It's a horrible feeling.
It is indeed.
Heller, go ahead.
You wanted to make, I think, what is going to be a fantastic point.
That was your line.
That was your cue, man.
You were supposed to own that.
Like I said, the most stable distro I've ever used on my Lenovo laptop has been Arch proper.
I've gone through Mint, Fedora, Ubuntu and Debian and all of them.
They've all come with something that just, but most of it's been graphics.
It does have an optimist and video card in it.
So I've had that issue.
But the biggest, the biggest strong point I can make for Arch is the fact that gaming
on Arch and Steam and everything on this Lenovo that I have has been phenomenal compared to
the other distros.
I'm not busting them down.
I don't know.
I use them for other things.
One of the things that really bugged me about the Ubuntu Snappy personal, I can't remember
what it's called when it was announced that Ubuntu Next is going to be based on Ubuntu
Snappy.
One of the headlines that went around a lot, there's a lot of different versions of it,
but one of the ones that went around a lot is Ubuntu is setting out to make Linux more
stable.
And I thought, what the hell does that mean?
You know, because when you tell users things are more stable, they think, does the program
crash on you?
Does the operating system lock up?
But actually, if I could have rolled this system back and had a more functional system,
that would have been my definition of stable for a production machine.
And in a way, initially, the reaction to the Ubuntu Snappy release is, oh, isn't that quaint?
They're taking a tar.gz file.
They're decompressing it to a partition.
They're updating the bootloader, and they're booting off that new partition.
And if it doesn't work, you boot back to the old partition.
That's very adorable.
And then we just sort of dismiss it as, oh, yeah, that's transactional.
But really, that's all it would have taken to fix my entire problem today, to solve two
shows' problems.
And I would have considered that more stable.
And so what Canonical and Ubuntu are saying really is, hey, you know, this entire way
we've been updating our computers this entire time, that's just inherently not all that
stable.
And there's just not really a way we're going to make that better.
It turns out the way software is built, the way Linux is built, where one group is working
on PulseAudio, and one group is working on video for Linux, and one group is working
on this, and the other group is working on that, turns out not really a great way to
just ship that in individual updates like that.
So we're going to do these in these big snapshot updates, and you just roll back if it doesn't
work.
And sorry, everybody else, you can keep doing it the way you're doing it, but we don't think
that's a good way to go anymore.
I think they might be on to something, because there has been a huge problem not just in
a situation like I had, where I ran into, but if you look at how successful vulnerabilities
like Heartbleed were, it was because people hadn't been updating their systems, their
OpenSSL installation, or the PlayStation Network.
Remember when Sony got hacked years ago, back at the start of TechSnow?
They got hacked because they didn't update their Apache servers, right?
You've all been in enterprises.
You guys all have seen, I mean, most of you probably, if you've worked in any company
at all, have seen some super old installations of software, because there is a certain roll
of the dice when you update that software.
And a lot of businesses are more willing to bank on the risk than they are willing to
bank on the almost certain problems of updates.
And so there were documents from the more recent Sony hack, the Sony Entertainment Pictures
hack, the more current one with the whole interview movie, there's documents from that,
where their CTO clearly says, their Chief Technology Officer clearly says, it is cheaper
for us to run the risk than it is for us to mitigate and fix it.
And part of that is, is because Linux is a huge part of these infrastructures.
And it's not the Linux kernel's fault, but Linux distributions are not super great at
updates, even ones like Red Hat Enterprise.
They're not super great at it.
Stuff breaks.
And Windows isn't super great at it either, and neither is Mac OS X, and you know, etc,
etc.
They're not super great at it.
But we did get better at it with the mobiles, didn't we?
So I don't know, in 92, we were a little like, oh, yeah, it's a good idea, but it's a little
quaint.
And now, after having lived this last couple of days on an Ubuntu system, I'm thinking,
if this was a year down the road or whatever it's going to be, and this was a transactionally
updated system, I wouldn't have had this problem.
So what I can take from this is, it might very well be like, you know, Ubuntu's contribution
to Linux, you know, Red Hat's contribution system, etc, etc, and maybe that will be a
good solution.
You know, it will bring its own problems, but I guess the nice thing about this whole
thing is, we might have a solution coming at Ubuntu, and what's even better is, it's
not going to be the only way to do it.
So you'll be able to get your perfect system where you just up the good chunks, and the
Arch people will be able to update everything transactionally in their own, using Pacman.
And I kind of think that, you know, all these problems aren't going to go away.
I think it's just going to become a, there's a solution to it.
This is your solution over here.
Yeah.
I mean, there's only so much you can do when humans are continuing to make the software,
until the computers take over.
Yeah.
I think that's what we're going to have to do.
Yeah, exactly.
There you go.
Yeah.
So the end, the RN solution was Antigros, and because I just wasn't sure if Arch was
a great idea for this machine, even though every time I put Arch in production, I've
been happy with it, I still, I think because I spent so many years in the enterprise IT
area, deploying Red Hat and SUSE Enterprise, like to me, I just, I cannot get over that
bias.
Like, I just, it seems I cannot get over it.
So, like putting Arch in here seems like such a big risk to me, that we're running this
on the System76 Meerkat, and the original NUC is still sitting right next to it, with
the Ubuntu Mate 14.04 install, ready to go, so that at any moment, if I have a problem
with Arch, I just unplug everything and plug into the, into that machine, it's just, it
would be probably just as broken.
But it is, it's, we'll see.
I'll run it like this for a little bit, and find out what happens, I guess.
I should, I should do like Putin, did you guys see that, did you guys see that Russia
is going to fork Sailfish OS?
Oh, I didn't, that would be great.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that Russia's going to, so Russia's Minister of Communication, Nikolai,
Nikolov or whatever, has taken to forums and consortiums and whatnot to announce Russia's
plan to take a forked version of Yalla Sailfish OS to lessen its dependency on Western technology.
It's a work meeting he held last week with folks from Sailfish Holdings and Yalla, along
with other companies and participants in the open source software domain.
Russia's officials recently swapped out their iPads for Samsung tablets, switching over
to Android recently, and declared that they want to invest more in open source software.
And so they're, they're going to look at how they can use open source more in private sectors,
technical sectors, economic sectors, political offices, and other areas to lessen dependence
on Western technology.
So we could have a Sailfish OS fork soon.
And speaking of Yalla and Russia, watch out, Popi, the Ubuntu phone has some serious competition.
The Yoda phone too is up on Indiegogo this week.
I mentioned this last week in Tech Talk today, I would have talked about it in Tech Talk
today except for the, well, the Linux problems prevented me from doing the entire episode.
But they are at 60 days right now on their Indiegogo campaign.
They are 177% funded already.
And I think they just launched it eight hours ago.
So you might wonder, why is this thing funded 177% in eight hours?
I know why.
You guys know why?
Never even heard of it before.
Okay.
Well, this is why you got to watch Tech Talk.
Dual freaking display.
Yep.
Exactly.
E Ink on the back of this thing.
E Ink.
Here, I'll play a little bit.
This thing is so cool.
What if we see the world around us the wrong way?
What?
What if we are just used to a one-sided world, feelings, dreams, hearing, seeing, love, used
to one-sided freedom, one-sided communication?
But what if, what if one side is not enough?
Yodaphone, the phone with two fronts.
We are so used to our smartphones that we accept the fact that we have to charge them
multiple times per day.
We can't see, we can't read in sunlight.
It's require a lot of efforts and clicks to get access to information we need.
And we thought, what if we look at the smartphone from another side?
And that's how Yodaphone was born and solve all these problems.
It doesn't waste battery power and legible under sunlight.
All information you need is available to you just at a glance.
And this screen can even act as a nice photo frame.
Plus electronic paper display doesn't hurt your eyes and it's perfect for reading.
Over the last two years, we've developed two generations of Yodaphone and now we are
selling Yodaphone in more than 20 countries.
This phone has won more than 20 prestigious industry awards and has been called many times
as the most innovative and disruptive smartphone of the year.
But we need your help to bring this innovative, disruptive smartphone to North America.
So please support our Indiegogo campaign and be part of dual screen revolution with Yodaphone.
So it's interesting, I like the idea of e-ink on the back.
You can see how that would be really useful for reading a book too.
So like the Kindle app or something like that.
But Corky, you say don't trust it?
I say do trust it.
Oh, do trust it.
Well if you look at the specs, it's what you'd expect in a normal phone.
It's a Snapdragon 801, 2 GB RAM, 1080p screen.
The only difference is what you can do with the back of the phone with this e-ink display.
It's not as if they're tackling 15 different new goals at once.
It's simply this is their USP and if they get this right, it will be an amazing phone.
So they say up to 45 hours with Yoda energy mode.
Always on information on the back of the phone like clock, temperature, notifications.
You can have breaking news.
You can also have your Google Fit information up on there like your steps and maps.
This is a pretty neat idea you guys and this is a great example of something open source
phones could totally do too.
It doesn't need Android to do this.
I mean they're going to ship it with Lollipop but yeah, you can see why it has already gotten
a lot of funding.
It's a pretty neat idea.
It's fun to see where these devices are going to.
So that's the Yoda phone and I don't know, you look at your Sailfish and Yalla, there's
a lot of neat phones out there right now.
Of course the Ubuntu phone too.
A lot of, they just have the new Mayez phone or whatever that just went available for Chinese
developers.
Meizu.
Meizu, thank you.
Yeah, I was wondering about that if you were going to mention the Meizu.
Yeah, the Meizu MX4.
Which yeah, and then also the Rotten Corpse.
Did you want to mention the Zenfone 2 that is like an x86 based phone, right?
Yeah, it's a 64 bit quad atom and it has 4 gigs of RAM, it's got 1080p screen, it's a
dual SIM phone, it's got like, it's got a ridiculous amount of hardware specs and it
costs $300 US.
Yeah, and I bet with the x86 base, there's probably a pretty good chance you'll be able
to get all kinds of fun things on there.
Well, technically, it's theoretically possible but right now the bootloader is locked.
That doesn't surprise me.
The XDA and other people are working on fixing that.
No, actually it's Intel's fault, not Asus' fault.
Asus say they are going to unlock it.
Yeah, well they're saying that Intel locked it and they're trying to basically get a deal
with Intel to let it go.
Come on Intel, you're not in a position of power in the mobile market, you should know
better than that.
Also the cheaper version is $200, 16 gigs internal storage, 2 gigs of RAM.
Yeah, that one by itself is a powerful phone when it's got a price of like one of the mid-range
phones.
Willy, you have bad news on benchmarks though?
I was surprised that hearing, even though it's x86 based, the benchmarks were putting
it at below, in some cases, a Snapdragon 801, which was really surprising given just how
powerful it was supposed to be.
Well, I mean, they've been working on these ARM chips in mobile specifically now for years.
I got a good head start.
Well, it also depends on, with the 4 gigs of RAM, you can make it do a ton of things
that just the RAM is handling and the CPU can do less effort into it.
And it also has the power VR GPU stuff so it can manage it better.
So if they're just focusing just on the CPU, then that's not really the whole package of
a phone anyway.
Yeah.
You know what, if we're going to talk about mobile, this is the perfect opportunity for
me to take a moment here and thank our sponsor Ting.
Go to linux.ting.com and guess what?
We have a great deal until the end of June.
You can get $50 off your first Ting device or a $50 service credit when you go to linux.ting.com.
Now, what is Ting?
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
What's going on here with Ting?
Actually, hold on.
You know who says it better than I do.
I could tell you what's going on with Ting, but with an introduction like that, I'll tell
you.
He says,
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
I'll tell you what's going on with Ting.
Ting is mobile that makes sense.
Ting's my mobile service provider.
I like Ting a lot because you only pay for what you use.
That's way better than the duopoly that's out there right now.
When I think about changing the mobile industry and what effect I can take as a customer,
there's not a lot.
I don't have a lot of power.
I have the need to have a phone and I have to use the existing infrastructure and it
needs to snap in with the existing infrastructure as much as possible, as much as I've tried
to work outside that system, maybe using only Wi-Fi or something like that.
No, especially not once a family tries to get ahold of you.
It just doesn't work that well.
This is where Ting worked well for me.
It gives me the control, but it also helps me feel like maybe I'm pushing the market
into a certain direction with my monthly payment because you only pay for what you use.
They just take your minutes, your messages, and your megabytes and they add them up at
the end of the month.
Whatever bucket you fall into, that's what you pay.
It's just $6 for the line.
That's crazy.
Think about that.
In fact, I think one time, from one of the big two, I think the lowest I heard, I know
I've heard $35 a line before, but I laughed when I heard that.
I think I've even heard as low as $15 a line, and of course, they'll tell you $10 a line,
but then of course, they put the tax on there and they have a couple of administrative fees
and then it really turns out to be like, what, $17 a line?
Ting's $6 a line.
There's going to be taxes on there, but there's no hidden fees.
There's nothing sneaky in there.
If you want to, for example, turn on hotspot until then, you just pay for the data usage.
They have voicemail and caller ID, picture messaging, all the regular stuff you'd expect,
and they have a really fantastic system if you need support.
First of all, they've got no whole customer service.
You call them at 1-855-TING-FTW anytime between 8 a.m. or 8 p.m., and a real human being answers
the phone on a weekday.
That's pretty nice.
They also have one of the best self-help sites out there, not only because they have a community
of rabid enthusiasts that are constantly helping you out and trying new things and pushing
the envelope and pushing Ting, and Ting loves that, but they also have subreddits, and they're
on Twitter, so you can hit them up there.
They have YouTube videos they're pumping out all the time using the Ting experience.
They make the Ting experience even better.
They're giving you great apps constantly.
Kyra just picked up this Turpin or whatever it's called, Turpin Profiler.
I went, okay, I'll check this out.
It's an unbelievable app.
This is an unbelievable app she picks.
These people are truly tuned in, like the people they hire to do their help desk for
when you call in at 1-855-TING-FTW.
They were like, well, how do we make sure that if people call in, the first person they
talk to can solve the problem?
You hire the geek.
So things are going, well, that's what we'll do.
We'll hire the geeks, and that's what they've done, and it's just awesome.
So they have this really great mentality to how they roll out features in their dashboard.
I don't know how much they talk about this.
I don't know how much I'm even allowed to say, but their dashboard's really awesome,
and they treat it like a full forward application development environment.
They have rollouts and phases they go through, internal testing they do, they have betas
they put out, they have feature sets that... recently Ting rolled out GSM service,
so they have CDMA and GSM.
That's something you have to work on over time to integrate that correctly into your
management dashboard, because they've got a really great management dashboard, and it
works across all range of devices, so they're really particular about it.
So their development cycle approach to how they roll out these kinds of features is like,
you'd almost think that was the entire focus of the business, but they just really get
how to deliver this stuff because they're backed by Two Cows, and Two Cows has been
around since the 90s.
They've been through the ups and downs of the internet.
They've done some of the best stuff on the web.
They also run Hover.
I mean, you guys know Two Cows, and so they've figured out what works and what doesn't work
and how to structure these companies, and that's where Ting came from, and it's just
so perfect.
It's perfect for our audience.
It's perfect for me, and when you go to linux.ting.com, they've got this $50 promo right now, which
is a really great device, which is a really great price, so you can get a great device,
like the Moto G. $91 from Ting Unlocked, and if you get our discount, it's going to be
even cheaper, or here's another great device.
If you have your own device, get a SIM card, or I really, really, really, really like the
Moto X2.
I don't have the Moto X2, but I would seriously recommend the Moto X2.
Also another great device, if you're going to go to linux.ting.com, get the MiFi 5580.
Get your $50 service credit when you get this thing.
You're going to get a $50 service credit.
That's going to pay for that hotspot.
I'll go get the Moto X2 unlocked.
That's just, that's a great device.
That's a great service, too.
Linux.ting.com, and a big thanks to Ting for sponsoring the Linux Unplugged program.
You guys are rocking it.
Congrats to the rollout to the GSM network.
It's pretty cool.
I'm really happy.
Just a little, a couple of updates from the headlines that didn't make it into the Linux
Action Show this Sunday.
Chrome Stable is, Chrome 43 is bringing better high DPI support to Linux, which is really
nice because I've got my XPS 13 with a high DPI display, and it drives me crazy.
I have every web page zoomed in at 200%, and the UI doubled, and it's still too small.
So high DPI support will be landing via your updates very soon.
Thanks Google.
We appreciate the update.
And then I wanted to talk about some of our favorite terminal applications.
We have just, and then, let's see, do we have any more?
Oh yes.
A couple more things, and then we're going to get to the Meerkat review.
And I wanted to start with a couple of our favorite terminal applications, because Stormson85
wrote in.
He said, so I feel cool using the terminal, and honestly it feels more efficient half
the time to boot.
What are some of your most must have, or maybe most frequently used terminal applications?
I've been trolling through the Arch Wiki's list of terminal apps, and I found that's
a good start.
Hmm, wow.
I have never actually looked, the Arch Wiki has everything.
I've never looked at the Arch Wiki's list of apps for the command line, but they do
have a lot of, a lot of stuff here.
Anybody in the Mamba room have a favorite command line app that you use all the time
that's not Vim?
Absolutely.
Okay.
I love HTOP and BMON.
Oh yeah?
They're, install them on every single system, including servers, like anything you can name.
Yeah.
Like HTOP is Process Viewer the way it should be.
And BMON is a bandwidth monitor, right?
Yeah, exactly.
And it has so many beautiful statistics.
Yeah, BMON's great.
I'll just have the tips of your fingers.
They're like, you know, they're there for when something goes wrong and you're thinking,
what's going on?
Something's not right.
You know?
Yeah.
One of my favorites is YouTube Download, YouTube-DL, and you'd think it's just for downloading
YouTube videos based on the name, but it downloads all kinds of videos.
I'm not going to tell you the dirty videos it can download, but it can also download
those.
And it can download like Fox News video clips.
It can download, it has, what it does, it doesn't do everything, but it does a really
good job of you give it a URL, it downloads that webpage, parses the HTML, and tries to
figure out the video embed, and then tries to pull the source video for that.
It's not just YouTube.
It's sweet.
So YouTube-DL, I've made it a pic before.
Oh, and look, you can, there we go.
There is a list of YouTube-DL supported sites, and it's a pretty good list, and a lot of
them are porn.
Anybody else have a, well, it is.
Anybody else have a favorite app?
Well, I'm a full-time tiling window manager user, so I currently have 15 terminals open,
but I'd say my favorite would be CMOS.
Lots of people use NCMP, CPP as their music player, but I really like CMOS as just anything.
Put it there, read a music folder, start playing.
What was the Pandora, was it Pythos?
Is that the Pandora?
No, what's the command?
Pythos, yeah.
Yeah, is that the command line Pandora client?
That's a really good one.
Okay, I've got a couple other my favorites, obviously.
Should I even give SSH a mention, or is that too obvious?
I guess I'll do it.
And I'll just do an honorable mention of Vim, Nano, and Emacs.
I think we all agree.
Piano Bar, that's what it is, Pino Bar, P-I-A-N-O Bar.
That's what it was.
No, no, Pythos is the graphical one.
Yeah.
I can give you an example of one that's not very commonly used, but it is very useful
for when you do need to check.
LSHW gives you a list of all your hardware, and that is so useful when I want to check
to see what CPU and what RAM I have, or when I'm on a new computer and I need to check
that.
Yeah, that's a great one.
I use it quite a bit, especially with different hardware testing, and especially when you
can output it to HTML and just load it up in a browser.
So nice.
Well, thanks to Jupiter Broadcasting, I can't remember when, I now use Inksy a lot as my
status monitor.
Yeah.
It gives you so much info.
I'll give a nod of the hat to Wimpy because, I mean, I knew about DDRescue, in fact, I'd
made it a pick on last, even, but I didn't, I just, for some reason, always just went
to using DD when I would write an ISO image to a thumb drive, but DDRescue is my way more
preferred because you get your transfer rate, and you can tell it's working, it gives you
more information, and I feel like it's faster too.
So DDRescue is, DD, please.
I used DD a long time ago, now I use DDRescue.
Fortune's a good one.
I have another one that's really useful, but you've got to get used to how it works, Diff.
Oh, yeah, sure.
What's different about files is I use it all the time.
Yeah.
What did I say?
Other than HTOP, as I used to use HTOP, but now I use Nmon, short for Nigel's monitor.
It doesn't just monitor your real-time statistics, it has a longer term so you can see more of
like a GUI CPU monitor.
It just tracks it over time so you can see how your CPU usages are kernel or network
IO.
That's right.
I'm installing it right now.
It's really nice.
I just installed it right now as you said it, because that's one I've heard of before.
That's what I love about doing this segment with you guys, is you guys will often mention
ones that I know of, but, oh, MPV, yeah, Iamacon is right, MPV is not only like my favorite
way to watch videos, but it is, I think, the absolute best way to watch a live video stream
if possible.
So for example, you take like the Jupiter Broadcasting JBLive stream, you go to jblive.tv
and you right-click on the RTSP stream under the flash player, and once you have MPV installed,
you go into your command line, you type MPV space, you paste in the RTSP stream, and you
will see MPV figures out what the codec is, it sees if there's a delay between the audio
and the video, and if there is a delay, it will sync that and correct that for you, and
it's also aware if your network is being a little sticky and it's dropping packets and
it will start buffering ahead to accommodate for a little bit of network issues.
It is such a great way to watch live video over the internet because it is such an intelligent
player, MPV, so I definitely got to give that a plug if you like to watch our shows and
you don't want to use flash, super great for that.
Second plug, I've mentioned it before, these are if you were a long time listener, you
know these ones, live streamer.
Live streamer is great because, again, I don't like watching live shows in my browser.
I love watching live shows.
I don't like watching it in my browser because my browser is for doing other stuff, I come
from a day when browsers crashed a lot, and so live streamer, what you do is, for example,
you go live streamer and then you put in the URL of the live stream, like a Ustream page
or a Twitch page, and the quality of that stream you want, and what live streamer will
do is it will go grab that flash encapsulated video, bundle it back up, do a local RTSP
stream for you, send it to your media player like VLC, and do a local stream of that flash
player over, in your computer, into your VLC player, bypassing the need for you to have
flash at all, and then sending what was forced and locked into your web browser now into
your VLC player, so that way you can move VLC onto your second monitor and have that
to your web browser like an animal.
So live streamer is awesome.
And Phish is a great shell for doing auto completion.
You can also do MPV, you could throw things like, you could type MPV jblive.fm and it
would just start streaming our audio feed for you.
So yeah, those are great ones.
Those are really good ones.
It's actually got a built in, a lot of people know it has YouTube DL support for MPV, but
they've actually made it a more of a standard feature, so you don't have to put the dash
YT DL, you can just do with a regular MPV command and it'll work.
That's pretty nice.
Does anyone feel like we've forgotten grep?
Yeah I mean there are some go-tos, like do we list all of them like ls and grep and top,
I mean those are good ones too.
Yeah but grep is a good tool to learn.
What about all the great systemd commands?
You know, not to be that guy, but we could go on all freaking day, and I swear to god
I didn't plan it like this, but this would be a great spot to mention Linux Academy because
if you are kind of interested in learning these tools, so this is a little personal
story and this is why I think Linux Academy, even if you're like a long time Linux user,
I had a little humble pie like a few years ago and so go to linuxacademy.com slash unplug
to get our discount and this was the humble pie I experienced.
Now you could have this in your privacy of your own home, I had to have this at a classroom
at a community college, so I go to a community college because you know what work wanted
me to you know keep training up, keep going on and I had no interest in learning anything
about the Windows stuff, so anything Linux I could take I was going to take that over
the Windows stuff and the Microsoft stuff anytime, and they said well okay we'll take
a Linux Plus course, and I rolled my eyes, I said I am your server, I converted this
entire infrastructure from Novell Netware to Windows NT to Linux, I did all of that
myself and you want me to go take a Linux Plus course, please right, I'm starting to
get a little diva, but I went because first of all it was ran by this guy named Grant,
he goes to Linux Fest, I bumped into him every year since I took his class which has been
kind of cool and he's a great guy and I learned that even though I had deployed Linux hundreds
of times, I had converted an entire company over to Linux, I had done massive deployments,
I mean you know hundreds of servers, I still needed some of the basics to be refreshed
because there was ways to do what I was doing better every single day, and it's not that
I was arrogant, it's just that I thought if there was a better way to do it I had to figure
it out by now or I just hadn't thought of it in a certain way, and so when I went and
took that very remedial Linux course, I had a little humble pie to realize you know what,
there is a space for me to always continue my education, and so when Linux Academy came
around I was all about that because I do not want to become stagnant, I also like to re-challenge
myself from time to time, and if you are employed, if you have reviews, if you have clients,
things like that, these kinds of progress are really nice, and so one of the things
I've really appreciated about Linux Academy since I've signed up is it's created by people
that truly love Linux, they're truly passionate about Linux, and they get the challenges you're
going to face when you have to go administer Linux, and so that's for example one of the
reasons I've rolled out this new feature called Nuggets, they're just like single how-tos
which are a perfect example of what I'm talking about, like you want to know how to just fully
exploit rsync, you really want to know how to just get the most out of top, I mean like
just these commands that if you knew a little bit better you might get more insights out
of your computer or maybe you have better file transfers or better data integrity, so
they created these nuggets, they're like anywhere between 2 and 60 minutes long and they just
deep dive into one specific thing and make you better at using that thing, or of course
they have entire scenario-based trainings where you're going to go deploy a server from
beginning to end where it's got the entire LAM stack and maybe you're caching files up
on Amazon and all of it, right, and they'll give you SSH access to it and they'll spin
up the lab and you'll have 7 plus distributions you get to choose from, and whatever distro
you choose, the courseware adjusts to that and the virtual machines adjust to that. This
is such a neat system because they're not focused on trying to teach you how to use
Adobe After Effects or how to manage Autodesk workstations or anything like that, or fix
the sync, no it's all of this stuff in Linux and open source and they're following it so
closely because they're passionate about it, so they're making sure their stuff is always
current, they're rolling out new things all the time and that's why they're also investing
in open source projects, they have a $5,000 grant program that you can find out more about.
Go over to linuxacademy.com slash unplugged to get our 33% discount, 33% and it's a really
great resource, linuxacademy.com slash unplugged and I give them a hearty recommendation from
a hard learned lesson, you don't have to learn it the way I did. Yeah, you can do one more
CLI app if you'd like, KDG, go ahead. Have at it. I don't, but are you muted? No, I don't
hear you. Well, you can always leave in the comments too. Oh, go ahead. No, I hear you.
Go ahead.
SSH.
We did SSH, but yes, SSH and not just SSH, but I think what deserves an honorable mention
is like SFTP and X1140 using SSH, like SSH itself is like an umbrella for a lot of cool
stuff, so yeah. Do they do an audio course? That's a good question, Dan. That's a really
good question. Screen and Tmux, another, screen is vital. For example, right now, I'm using
screen because I have a Minecraft server running up on a digital ocean droplet and I just,
I have screen running all the time. RSync over SSH. MOSH, MOSH if you are connecting
to a machine remotely and it's a little sticky, the connection isn't very fast, maybe your
keys aren't repeating fast enough, MOSH rides on top of SSH but gives you things like local
echo so that way when you type you see it immediately, it handles disconnects better
so if you're on spotty Wi-Fi or you're using like a Mi-Fi hotspot and the connection is
coming in and out because you're on the road, MOSH is going to handle those or here's another
example. If you just have a laptop that you bring to work and you SSH into a machine and
you put it to sleep and you go somewhere else and you want to be able to open up your machine
and you can still get to that same host, MOSH will reconnect. So MOSH is really great. Apt
Git. All right, Rotten Corpse, you'll have our last word and then we'll move on.
Well in referencing to the emulation episode of last, this past Sunday, one of the great
command line program that gives you a lot of good Nintendo 64 gaming, Mupen 64 Plus.
Yeah, that was Colonel Linux's favorite. Mupen 64 Plus is awesome, so is SNX. All right,
so coming up really soon and I'm surprised we haven't talked about it more is Southeast
Linux Fest. And ironically, it's just in time for the new 2015 Southeast Linux Fest that
the crew actually got 2014's videos posted. And our very own producer, Mr. Q5 Sys, his
talk is up about Puppy Linux and deconstruction. I'm just going to play, I'll just play a little
bit for those of you who are not familiar with Puppy. This is kind of a good introduction
to it right here.
Puppy was designed to be very friendly. You have an old system or someone has an old system
and they just want to get online, you plug it in, you get online, you can browse the
web, you can send emails. It's meant to be very, very simple to use. Now if you want
to get in and dig into it, you're going to need some skill levels above just a random
user because of how everything is actually done. But for just standard user computer
actions, we want it to be as easy as possible. Like I said, it will run extraordinarily fast.
The primary reason for this is because it runs from RAM. We'll touch on that in just
a moment.
Nice.
It will have all the applications needed for daily use. These are the typical things like
a document writer, a spreadsheet, so you can send emails, you can play music, you can watch
movies. The versions of the programs that we use and the actual versions of programs
that we use are sometimes not the ones you're familiar with. The reason we've chosen those
is because we're looking to keep the size as minimal as possible. Right now, the latest
official release of Puppy, the entire OS, GUI, and all applications is about 140 megabytes.
Wow. So the whole video is up. It's about 54 minutes long and it just went up and we'll
have a link in the show notes. And if you'd like to meet Mr. Q5SIS or Colonel Linux or
Rotten, are you going to go to self?
I'm planning on it, but I haven't. It's not confirmed yet.
So I'll get to that in a second. But so Southeast Linux Fest, I'm told by the crew, one of the
great Linux Fest put on every single year is going on June 12th to the 14th, 2015 at
the Sheraton at the Charlotte Airport in Charlotte, North Carolina. Okay, you got that? It's June
12th to the 14th at the Sheraton Charlotte Airport in Charlotte, North Carolina. It makes
it really easy. And actually, to make it even easier for you guys, I set up a meetup at
meetup.com slash Jupiter Broadcasting with all of the address and the bits of information
you need to know, including they have limited hotel rooms still available as part of the
self block. And if you get that, that means you're going to get a free shuttle to and
from the international airport and you're going to get the special $99 room rate and
you'll also get free internet in the room. So you need to book if you haven't booked
yet for Southeast Linux Fest because they've reopened just a few more rooms on the block.
They'd sold out and they got a few more. We set up the meetup. You can go to meetup.com
slash Jupiter Broadcasting. You'll find it there. I also have it linked directly in the
show notes. If you'd like to meetup with the crew, they're going to be down there. Unfortunately,
I had intended to go, but we sort of overextended ourselves to make Linux Fest Northwest possible.
And so I just, I can't afford to send myself to Linux Fest, I mean to Southeast Linux
Fest. I'm major bummed because it's one that I've been wanting to go to for a couple of
years. But we'll have the guys there and they'll be doing live coverage and I'll be in studio,
I suppose. And so I will still have great coverage. I am a little bummed because I really
wanted to go, but it doesn't affect our coverage of the event. And you can still meetup with
perhaps producer Rotten Corps. Kernel Linux and Q5Sys are going for sure. And it should
be, I'm told, one of the best events of the year. And it's really pretty convenient if
you get on that block because you fly in there, they shuttle you right to the fest. It's pretty
straightforward and you can sleep. And the fest is at the hotel, so you don't have to
travel. And then the guys just go out and get food and stuff. And there's some great
places to eat nearby. So gosh, it should be a heck of a time. It makes me, man, I, oh.
So I think next year we sort of, we sort of assessed how we'll do Linux Fest so that we
can afford to do some of these other things. We have other events coming up too. That's
the other reason is because OSCON is just around the corner and I'm going to that very
soon. So there's a couple other events that, it's just all, they all back up really close
to each other. I would love to go to CELF, so hopefully we'll be able to pace ourselves
for Linux Fest Northwest next year. And then, and then I can go to CELF. Kind of a hard
lesson to learn, but now we know. BSDCAN was also, I was hoping to go to BSDCAN, but my
passport still hasn't come through at this point and it's getting too close. So yeah.
But you guys can still go and then tell me all about it. Make me super jelly. And go
to meetup.com slash Jupiter Broadcasting to get more on that. And Rotten Corps, I hope
you can make it. That'd be really cool. Cause I, I'm told it's a crazy party.
The thing that annoyed me is that the, before I even knew it existed, they had went to Atlanta
and then the year after that they started going to Charlotte just consistently. So the
one that was actually close to me was the one that didn't know what happened.
That'd have been nice, huh? Go figure. Well, that's how it goes. I, I, I, I've always been
tempted to go, but it wasn't until the guys had gone for a couple of years and were like,
yeah, we've, so it's one thing like you hear, you hear a good party, but then you go to
all of them and then you really get an idea of which ones are the good parties. And the
guys that go to all of them say, this is one of the best parties out there. So that's pretty
cool.
All right. We're going to get into the Meerkat review. System76 is not a sponsor of Linux
Unplugged and I, I wouldn't, I could, I would still do the review in the Linux action show,
but we actually have two weeks booked solid on Linux action show of really great guests.
And so it doesn't really quite fit into our schedule. And I've been using the Meerkat
on and off in production. So I, my, my experiences are fresh right now. System76 has released
this ultra compact, it's a I five or I three based rig. You can put up to 2.5 terabytes
of disc in it cause it can actually fit two discs in this tiny little thing. It's smaller
than a Mac mini. It's based, I think on the NUC platform is, is, is essentially what the
original platform is based on. And then System76 has done design work and firmware work and
drivers work to sort of differentiate it from the rest of the market. I'll get to that here
in a moment, but to give you a general sense in production, we've used this up at Linux
Fest Northwest to drive a couple of displays and do our 24 seven playback that we had while
we had the booth assembled. And then now today it's actually in studio driving all of our
remote audio. And I'm going to get into more of that in a moment, give you my experiences
with the NUC platform and specifically with the System76 Meerkat. And I, in fact, something
I don't normally talk about in these reviews, but I want to in this review is the complete
out of box experience because System76 has done something unique with the Meerkat that
I've never seen them do with their previous products. So I think it deserves, it deserves
a mention. So before we get to that, I'll give our last sponsor this week a mention
because these guys are making my life so much easier and they can make your lives a lot
better too in a lot of different ways. It's DigitalOcean and DigitalOcean is a simple
cloud hosting provider that's dedicated to offering the most intuitive and easy way for
you to spin up your own cloud server. And that sounds like some mumbo jumbo. I'll grant
you that. In fact, it took me about three years to even be able to cope with the word
cloud and not shudder. I'm there now. Thankfully, it took some counseling. But the reason why
I get through that line is it's so accurate. It's exactly what you get. You get a badass,
super fast Linux computer up on a server that has been built by experts to be as fast as
possible and easy to manage and easy to deploy applications on as you could possibly conceive.
And I guess I could say that every time, but that's a little more clunky than they are
a simple cloud hosting provider dedicated to offering the most intuitive and easy way
to spin up a cloud server. Legitimately, that's DigitalOcean. And if that for you means your
entire backend infrastructure, they can do that. If that for you means you need to rent
a server for two hours while you test something, they can do that. You can deploy everything
on their rigs with their SSD-based technology. It doesn't matter which package you pick,
it's all SSDs top to bottom, every single machine. That means you're going to get super
great IO. You're not going to need a big old disk array that's like fiber-attached or SCSI-attached
or whatever, iSCSI, so much nicer with SSDs today. And this is where DigitalOcean sort
of stacked the deck. I would say when they started out, betting on KVM was kind of risky,
but pretty obvious it was trending that way if you really followed the market. And DigitalOcean
does. I mean, the people that work for D.O. are like the top of the field. That probably
to them wasn't a big revelation. KVM is going to be a fantastic virtualizer. I mean, granted,
this is a while ago, right? So yeah, okay, they made that bet. Linux, again, kind of
the same thing. Bit of a bet back then for infrastructure on a cloud device, but kind
of seemed like where the market was going pretty clear by that point. It was going to
be Linux. KVM, not so clear. Maybe Zen, right? Could have been Zen, could have been QMU,
could have been something else. But Linux, that seemed pretty obvious. I think where
they actually went out on a limb pretty big was SSDs. Because SSDs, the jury has still
only recently gotten in on that. That was a huge cost outlay for them. That was a huge
cost outlay for them to also then try to make the service so freaking valuable in cost.
And because they decided we need Linux, we need tier one bandwidth, we need the best
disk IO possible. When they stacked the deck that way, then all they had to do was seal
the deal. So that's what they did. You can get started in less than 55 seconds. And pricing
plans started only $5 a month. That seals the deal right there. For $5 a month, you're
going to get 512 megabytes of RAM, a 20 gigabyte SSD, one CPU, and a terabyte of transfer.
It's dedicated to you. You get a terabyte of transfer. I love that. I love that because
I pay for transfer. So when I'm setting up a digital ocean droplet, and I have one that
has Minecraft on there, and I think I get like four terabytes of transfer or something
like that, I'm like, okay, fine. Yeah, have at it. Let me just throw the transmission
web UI on there too. And they got data center locations in New York, San Francisco, Singapore,
Amsterdam, London, and a brand new Spankin data center in Germany that's connected right
on the internet exchange over there. So all Germany's neighbors get unparalleled access.
I mean, you're going to look like a boss when you spin up a droplet over there. But that
interface is so slick. I mean, it's very intuitive. So you're going to be able to do a lot of
things that normally you would have thought to manage on a virtual server would have required
a degree. And it's so, so nice because you can also replicate all that functionality
with their straightforward API. And you can integrate that in with your applications,
your management infrastructure, you can take advantage of all of the great applications.
When you go to digital ocean, check out some of their community apps. There's a lot of
good stuff. And remember, you can try all this out two months for free when you use
our promo code Do Unplugged. Do Unplugged will get you a $10 credit. Try out the $5
rig for free. And digital ocean is hiring too. They need writers. They're looking for
people to submit articles for their tutorial section. They're opening that back up again.
Go over to digital ocean and check out their career section. They're specifically looking
for Linux sysadmins. They're a growing company. They need tutorials. They need copyright editors.
They need Linux sysadmins. They specifically told me to tell you guys that because they
know you guys are the super savvy audience that they want to hire. And they get this
stuff. They've asked me to tell you that because they want to hire you guys specifically, and
gals, because they know that Jupiter Broadcasting has one of the best audiences out there. So
go over there. Try out digital ocean for a little while. If you need a gig, look them
up. They got positions open. They specifically wanted me to mention the content editing position
and the Linux staff positions. When they opened up those positions before, they were filled
by JB community members. I think they can be done again. So go over to digital ocean.
Use the promo code DOUNPLUGGED. That supports this show, but also gives you that $10 credit.
You can try out the $5 rig two months for free. And if you're looking for a job and
you're in the area, check out their careers page too. And if you can write some tutorials,
you might be able to make some money. They are really serious about having the best tutorials
on the web. And so if you're a really good writer, you might want to contact them and
work with them. There's a lot of great opportunity over there. They have great tutorials too.
And they put those content editors on there. DigitalOcean.com, DOUNPLUGGED. Check them
out. They're a really great service.
Okay. So back to the Meerkat. So you guys are talking to me right now on the Meerkat.
And that's not too shocking, I suppose. But the question I really had is could a system
this small, could it do something very intensive? And I'll tell you what I've ran into from
a performance standpoint is it's going to depend if you get the i3 or i5. But we've
been able to do 720p live video streamed on it without any issues. It has the Intel Iris
graphics in there. And so you get essentially, we're pushing a 1080p resolution mirrored,
a mirrored 1080p resolution. And we're able to get full 30 frames to 60 frames per second
on our HD video calls. The system doesn't get hot. It doesn't kick up a fan noise. It
does have a fan, but it's pretty quiet. It's not audible by our microphones in the studio.
So what really sort of struck me about the Meerkat machine itself is while it's both
extremely capable, it's also very, very limited. So I feel like I can say right off the top
of this review, I can recommend this machine. If gaming isn't a huge component of what you
do, like you can do some gaming, like race the sun and things like that, but you're not
going to get much beyond that. That said, that's a lot of you because what you do get
is you get an i5 processor. You can put up to 16 gigabytes of RAM, which is pretty competitive.
But what really does it for me is that you can have two disks in this tiny freaking computer.
You can have the standard M SATA, and then it can also fit a 2.5 inch on the bottom drive.
I think it's a 2.5. I actually didn't double check it. And you can mount it right on the
back of your monitor. It's got gigabit ethernet. It's got four USB 3.0 ports. It's display
port out and HDMI. And it has a combo audio jack. And it's got the Intel 5500 by the way.
So that's not, that's no slouch. Two disks in this tiny little nearly silent Linux workstation
that can drive two monitors. If you have display port and mini HDMI, if you have monitors that
can take that and you can get cables that both of those go to display port, this tiny
little machine can drive two displays and it is wicked fast because all of the storage
is SSD based. So it's, it's, it's a pretty compelling, the price is a little more than
if you were to build it yourself. But if you bought like crucial RAM and you bought Samsung
SSDs, like you got all good parts and then you also provided a warranty to yourself.
I don't think, I think it's kind of a wash on the, on the, on the price, but as far as
performance goes, it, it's, it's, I, it's really hard to describe how impressively fast
this thing is. It is deceivingly fast. If, if you make a few tweaks to the gnome environment
to work better with the Intel graphics, it's breathtaking how, how, how, and it's just
like, I like it boots in about four seconds and I'm not exaggerating at all. Applications
open instantly. There's no waiting. Now I, more of my performance review is based on
my experience under Arch than it is under Ubuntu. And I did have a couple of problems
where it, one time when I powered it up, it said it couldn't find a boot device, but I,
I'm not actually sure what all was involved there because Ricoh was able to fix that in
about 30 seconds. And one of the things that he kind of clued me into is if you have a
Linux rig that you're setting up that has UEFI, he recommends, and I've been reading
about a software package you guys are probably familiar with in the mumble room called Gummyboot,
which is really just a simple UEFI boot manager that you use instead of grub. And so we're
using, we're using this Meerkat with Gummyboot and Antigros. And we, it shipped with Ubuntu
and that worked fine. But truth be told, that installation needed to be rebuilt because
we let a BSD user manage it. I'm not going to go into more details than that. But anyways,
so I needed to reload it and, and it's been great. I read reviews online. People say they
can use Windows 10 with it as well. I have not tried Windows 10. And if you're watching
the video version right now, I'm showing you a picture of what the insides look like. It's
surprisingly serviceable. The lid comes off and you've got three slots for RAM. You've
got the slot for the, for the storage. And then the machine flips over and there's a
bunch of stuff on the bottom you can change out. Like the drive, like the second drive
and things like that. It's a pretty neat little rig. Does anybody in my world, do you guys
have any questions about the system 76 Meerkat? Other than the price. Yeah. So the price,
like I was just like, let's take a look at it here. So let's design and buy a system
76 Meerkat. And I would go with a 2.7 gigahertz processor. I would go a 16 gigabytes of RAM.
I would go with a 250 gigabyte solid state drive. And then I like the option. See, one
of the things that I'll let you do here is you can go for your second drive. You just
want storage. You could go with a spinning drive, but I kind of, I don't know. I guess
if we're trying to work on price, maybe I won't pick, I won't pick a second drive, but
I like the option. I mean, to me that's makes this thing really nice, really compelling.
I won't do a monitor or speakers. And I already have a keyboard and mouse and I can stick
with the year warranty. Now they're going to give you a lifetime support of the Ubuntu
installation. So that's not bad. And that's $878. And if you were to, and I did this kind
of earlier, if I did that same rig on Amazon, I think it comes out to be $140 cheaper or
$180 cheaper depending on which RAM and a CPU I get. It really is $180. Really? That's
not worth it to me because if I order this and again, this is not a sponsored segment.
They do not, they're not paying me to say this at all. In fact, if anything they probably
would, they would probably prefer I say this and last because it has a larger audience.
But truth be told, I think the value here is you spend a what, $150, $180, even if it
was $200 really, they preassemble it, they warranty it and they ship it to you. That's
just those things right there. And we have, now we've built two NUCs in studio and one
NUC that first installation didn't go so well. That first NUC, if you just get any of the,
like you get the wrong RAM voltage or wrong timing and like it just, it doesn't work.
And so it's kind of a bummer because we got the first NUC. I think the RAM, the voltage
of the RAM was off by just a tiny amount. I can't even remember what it was. It was
a package too. It was a package I bought off Amazon and they shipped it with the wrong
RAM and I got burned and we built the whole system. We got all set up, ready to go, hit
the button, nothing happens. And it's a major letdown because now you wait another three
days while you go realize, oh, I bought the wrong RAM. I get the right RAM shipped and
I send back the old RAM. And then, you know, and when you're sitting here in a business
and you want to get a machine in place because you need to replace something, that three
day delay was a major pain in the butt. For some of us, it'd be worth 180 bucks to have
somebody assemble it, test it, support it and ship it. Especially for a business. Rekai
says, by the way, it was 1.5 volt voltage RAM instead of 1.65 or the other way around.
And I find it to be, I find it to be, on paper, an interesting device. I find it, once I actually
have it in hand, to be a compelling device. I think the size is a big part of that. Corky,
what do you think?
Well, I think the size is a massive part. There are so many use cases that don't need
a massive graphics capability. And if you start deploying these in bulk, it could make
a massive difference, well, for Linux. Because when you take these kind of devices and you
deploy them as thin clients or dev machines or something, and they run Linux perfectly
because of open source graphics drivers, solid build qualities, they're a real showcase for
Linux's power.
Yeah, and they're very, it's sort of, it's been one of those things where I showed some
people at the Linux Fest, and they're like, that's the whole computer. That was their
reaction. Like, that's the computer? That's not the power supply? No, that's the whole
computer. And I, so, and I've been told they run Windows really well. I can confirm they
do run Mac OS very well. And that's the beautiful thing about this, is it's all Intel parts.
And so if your operating system supports Intel wireless or Intel NUC, or I mean, Intel NICs,
Intel processors, Intel chipsets, if you know, if your operating system supports that, it's
going to work. And so that's Windows, Linux, and Mac OS. And in the case of Linux, it means
everything is supported by the kernel, out of the box. HDMI mirroring, audio out of the
HDMI port, all of it. Every distribution, every single distribution that ships with
like a Linux kernel 3.3 or newer works out of the box. And so that to me makes this machine
the perfect Linux workstation for a distro hopper.
Well, that's just it. It's what it does. It has very few compromises, very few things
that you could switch out or make better, which will probably be improved in time. It
may end up with the same user base as ThinkPads, people who want things that do it perfectly.
That's interesting, yeah.
But for a limited set of users. And for Linux, that's meant that ThinkPads are amazing for
Linux support because they've got that crowd of people who think they're perfect machines.
And you know, you look at the trajectory and the slow but steady improvement of the Intel
graphics. I could see maybe a year or two from now where the NUC type hardware is very
capable for gaming. Of course, standalone graphics isn't going to stand still either.
But yeah, I agree. It's not only very capable if you have, I think it's capable if you have
moderate graphics usage. And that's with like heavy workloads too. Like I'm telling you,
like we've thrown some serious CPU work at it. It's not an i7. You know, so you have
to come in, you have to come at, I came at it, maybe I came at it with an abundance of
caution thinking maybe I set my expectations too low thinking you couldn't, you just can't
have a powerful workstation in a computer this small. But after a couple of hours of
tweaking the Intel driver and after a couple of hours of just setting up the software,
I could already tell it was a great system. And so we've been using it now for two, three
weeks and I mean, it's just like, okay, let's stick it over here and do this for a little
bit. Stick it over here and do this for a little bit. And then this morning when I had
to replace the machine running mumble because the Ubuntu updates had just destroyed that,
we just put it in, we just put this machine right in its place and it's just taken right
over the role and it's working really well. And it's, it makes it very, very nice to say,
you know, this is a really easy installation. And if somebody were to come to me today and
say, Hey, I'd like to buy a Linux rig. I feel like this is one I could recommend to them
and know that even if they ended up having to reload it themselves, they're not going
to run into problems. And then like the nice thing about the Meerkat is where there are
rough edges, System76 kind of rubbed those down nice to a little smooth round edge and
they're not that sharp. And I mean, I think you get most the way there if you built the
NUC yourself and then they've come in with the Meerkat and sort of finished it off. And
so for me, I'd say, I'm just going to, like, if I need a device like this, I'm just going
to buy a Meerkat now. Maybe you can make your own decision. And if, but, and for people
that I recommend, people that I think want a new computer, this is the machine I'm going
to tell them to buy. If I say, do you play games? And they say, no, this is the machine
I'm going to tell them to buy. It's because it starts at $499, first of all, and not everybody
needs an i5 with 16 gigs of RAM. Some people are going to be fine with an i3 and eight
gigs of RAM or whatever. And, and so for them, you know, they can get at a lower price point.
I'm just because of me, I, I, well, I'm going to use it in production so that I can have
an i5, I got to have 16 gigs, you know, blah, blah, blah. But $499 is actually the starting
price for this thing. That's not so bad. I think, I think they've, I, the only criticism
I would give System76 for this is they should have done it sooner. And, and also there are
packages out there by folks like Gigabyte that have an i7, but I've read those have
heating issues. So I think it's nice that I stick them closer to the main line. And
I know why they didn't do it sooner. I know that it wasn't, they didn't feel like it was
ready to ship sooner. I just, I wish I didn't have to buy, I bought two other Intel NUCs
and I would rather buy the System76 Meerkats because it's a more complete package. It feels
like a product, whereas the NUC kind of feels like a spec car that I'm putting together
that works out pretty good, but it definitely feels like a spec car and it feels like it
has rough edges that I just, that a shipped product doesn't have. And then the other nice
thing about the Meerkat is it ships in some super badass packaging. System76 has a really
great box that they put it in with some great designs in it and they ship it with a better
power adapter than the, than the regular kit. So that's nice too. So they've taken, they've,
they've improved that area as well. So it's a great rig if you need like a development
machine or if you need something to do web browsing or mail or you need an office system.
And what I really like about it for the office environment is it, you, it comes with the
visa plates. You can just mount it to the back of a monitor. It comes with the plate,
at least my demo model did. I think they all do. So that's really cool too. That's, I really
like that. Anyways, any other questions about the, the NUC or the Meerkat in general or
the performance or any of that stuff? It's been interesting to compare the Meerkat to
the straight line NUC side by side. And, and I, cause I was pretty skeptical. What's the
difference really? And I'd say there's enough of a difference and just the convenience and
the support that I think they have something here. And then especially when they're selling
directly to consumers.
How well does that perform with KDE?
Oh, that's a good question. I don't have a lot of experience, but I have similar experience
under like a similar CPU and video card. And it, you know, it's fantastic. It's the, the,
the Iris 5,500. You can play Borderlands 2, the pre-sequel using that graphics card. Like
it is a fully capable. Now I don't, I'm not saying it's going to be high settings. It's
going to be like 30 frames a second. Well, there are 40 frames a second, but you can
fricking play borderlands, the pre-sequel on the Iris graphics. The only time I have
a massive, I have a massive laptop that has like quad core I five and like eight gigs
of Ram. It can't play borderlands 2.
And you know, the only thing is, is the Iris graphics is not up to the task of high DPI.
That's where it falls down. So of course that's what the XPS has in it. But if you hook this
up to a 1080p display or even like a 2k display, it's going to be fine. It's going to do just
fine and it's going to look really good. That's a good question. And I'll do some more gaming
tests on it now that we have it hooked up here in the studio. Cause I have not thrown
like a, one of the ones I get, one of the ones I never get from the, you know, I get
different, when I do hardware and distro reviews, I get one set of questions from the live audience,
totally different set of questions from the download audience. And the download audience
often wants to know about Dota 2. They often want to know how Dota 2 runs. And I don't
think any of you guys have ever once asked me how Dota 2 runs, but they, so that's something
I'll try. I'll try Dota 2. I'll try some games. I'll do that and then I'll report back, but
we just, we just reloaded it. So I got to get steam installed and get the multi-lib
and all that kind of stuff. So yeah, the Meerkat from system 76, I give it a thumbs up and
I wonder if they'll let me hang on to it for a little while. And if you're going to do,
if you're going to do your own like arch load or you're going to, I mean, it comes with
Ubuntu and it really, you know, that's a nice package. Their Ubuntu installation is pre-set
up with their system 76 software packages. So you can go get latest updates from the
system 76 repo and it's ready to go out of the box. If you want to put another distro
on there, it looks like gummy boot is a good way to go. If you want to keep UEFI or maybe
if you have your own UEFI rig at home, gummy boot is worth checking out. It made the installation
process a little bit smoother and it's also the way arch is pushing for those of you that
are arch users. And I'll also have linked in the show notes a write-up that beta news
did where they reviewed the Meerkat and they liked it as well. And he did a tear down a
little bit of the internals, which is pretty cool. I thought that was a good one. All right,
one last plug before we run, don't forget about that meetup, meetup.com slash Jupiter
Broadcasting. If you're going to be at self, we'd like to see that. And don't use the hashtag
self. That's something else completely, which you will find out the hard way if you use
that. And then last but not least, send in your runs Linux picks. Go over to JupiterBroadcasting.com
slash contact and choose Linux action show from the dropdown and send in your runs Linux
like pictures of your setup or a video of a cool thing or whatever. We love doing the
runs Linux picks from the audience. And last but also not least, jblive.tv to tune into
the show live and join us in our virtual lug and hang out with us. We do this show on Tuesdays
and JupiterBroadcasting.com slash calendar has it in your local time zone. But when you
hang out in the Mamba room, you get to interact with us live and give us a hard time. If we
do something stupid right here, you can call us out on it. But also we have pre and post
show where we like to hang out and chat with you guys. And then you can also always engage.
Oh, hi there. Hi. That just came in right in there at linuxactionshow.reddit.com. Send
in your feedback, leave comments, stories, things like that. It's always good times over
the subreddit and then that helps make a better show. And we'll follow up with that. And I'll
also try to follow up on the Meerkat gaming stuff like, and if you have any questions
about that linuxactionshow.reddit.com in the Linux Unplugged feedback thread, put your
Meerkat questions in there and I'll try to collect some of those and do a follow ups
in that next week's episode of Linux Unplugged. All right, everybody. Well, thank you so much
for tuning to episode 93 of the Linux Unplugged program. We'll see you right back here next
Tuesday.